Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of
their country. Now is the time for all good men to
come to the aid of their country. Now is the time.
Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of
their country.
Dr. Mobley, it's nice to be here with you this
morning. You would tell us, please, sir, who you
are and where you came from originally. Well,
indeed, William Hodges Mobley, and I was Born in
Akron, Ohio in November the 15th, 1941. And I
grew up in the Akron area. Went to public schools
there.
Went off to a small liberal arts school in Ohio
called Denison University. And I graduated there
in 1963. degree in psychology and a minor in
economics. Thoroughly enjoyed that small
liberal arts school experience. And as with many
of those small schools, one of their objectives is
to encourage as many as possible to go on to
graduate school or professional school. And so I
had that instilled early on. But I took a
circuitous route. I went to work first. And with a
psychology major, they're limited. entry-level
opportunities for back in those times. I went to
work in human resources. I really was lucky. A
company called PPG Industries used to be called
Pittsburgh Plate Glass. They got hired there in
their personnel employee relations department.
My first major job after a six-month or so
orientation was to go on the college recruiting
circuits. So I spent two years out visiting
universities all over this country doing
recruiting and thoroughly enjoyed that. The
travel were out in a hurry, but the ability to see a
lot of universities... Did you get down to this
part of the world? I did, indeed, in several ways.
We did college recruiting during the year, but
during that time, PPG was in an expansion mode and
building plants all over the country, including
here in Texas. The... A plant was built in Wichita
Falls at the time. It was one of the largest glass
plants in the world. It was a new location. We had
Houston Chemical here outside of Beaumont. We had
a plant in Corpus Christi, one across the border in
Lake Charles, Louisiana. A lot of distribution
centers. So there was a lot of activity here in
Texas. What years were those? This would have been
64 through 67. I worked
PPG. I had some other assignments. I was in
Pittsburgh in employee relations and labor
relations and others. And then they sent me down to
their largest GLAST operation, which was in
Cumberland, Maryland, to be director of training
and development.
And I enjoyed that assignment. And by that time, we
had a daughter, and we're thinking, well, about
the next year, we'll go back to graduate school.
And that had been my plan all along, and then to do it
in organizational psychology. Well, during
early in my assignment in Cumberland, Maryland, I
had an opportunity to meet the people at the
University of Maryland on a project we were doing
with them. So I got to know them. But I was still
thinking in my field, some of the stronger
organizational psychology programs are really
in the Big Ten, Illinois and Ohio State and
Minnesota. So I'd been thinking there long. But
I'd gotten to know the people at Maryland. And they
called me. It was around Easter. Because when we
went over, the cherry blossoms were already
blooming. I remember that. And I took our little
youngster. And they called. And one of the faculty
members I'd gotten to know had just gotten a new NIH
grant. And he said, I've got a fellowship. You'll
come over. So we chucked over there for a weekend
and took a look at it and decided, let's do it. Which
we did. And I wouldn't look back for a minute. I got
it. It was a great experience, superb education at
the University of Maryland. For four years we
lived in graduate student housing at the
University of Maryland. I took a leave from PPG and
they continued to treat me very well. They gave me
consulting assignments and they had a stock plan
vested. That kept vesting each year we were in
school, and that helped us live with some creature
comfort while in graduate school. So we had a good
experience there and had our second daughter in
Washington while we lived there. So it was a good
experience. Then I went back to PPG for two years,
started their human resource and employee
relations research function. They never had
that. So you're talking about roughly 1971?
That's right, 1971 to 1973. I went back to PPG. And
you have a Ph.D. now in industrial organization
psychology.
And by that time, kind of the behavioral things
were really beginning to take hold in business.
There's still a lot of faddishness, I think the
awakening that the human resource is the
comparative advantage and we really need to find
more effective ways to deal with and manage and
lead the human resource. So we set up a pretty
exciting
employee relations research program by academic
standards very applied, obviously. We were
looking at things like job enrichment, job
design, team building, leadership,
compensation, employee turnover. So
interesting practical problems. Some of it we
farmed out to university people. Some we put in
internal teams together. Exciting times. During
that time, I had a chance to teach at Carnegie
Mellon and kind of got excited about teaching. And
I told my colleagues at PPG that at some point I was
probably going to have to try that and they
understood that. I think would have preferred
that I stayed in
Pittsburgh. Indeed, I had a job offer from
Carnegie Mellon when I decided to go. But about
that time, we went down and looked at the
University of South Carolina, which was making a
major commitment to build their business school,
including their international dimension. And by
this time, I'd also kind of become focused on the
importance of international issues. PPG was
becoming a major international participant and
was learning some of the lessons the hard way. They
had a few missteps abroad and basically were lack
of understanding of the cultures in which they
were going to operate. So anyway, that got me
intrigued about that. Well, South Carolina was
very intriguing. Kind of a new start, a very
aggressive dean, a lot of support. So I joined the
faculty there in 73. And one of the things we did was
to start a center for management and
organizational research. And we got some office
and naval research funding. And so we had some
really good experience there. We were
well-funded, a good research program, began to
attract some good students. Were you teaching
also? Teaching, you bet, you bet, in the
organizational behavior area. I think we had O&R
funding the whole time I was there.
So we were there seven years, 73 to 80. The
international program was still doing very well.
Absolutely. And I was just on the fringes of it. A
fellow named Randy Foulkes was really the guru of
it, still there. Very well conceived. A lot of time
spent on thinking about what it ought to be. It was a
very integrated program. It wasn't just a
collection of courses. You took things, area
study, for example, you'd look at the the culture,
the economy, marketing strategies, all in kind of
a module. So it was integrated and had a required
language and a required internship requirement.
When did Carlson leave? Carlson's daughter is
over there right now. Yes. Just got to Paris, I
think, for her internship. And they've been
placing those students well, and I think in part
because it's good quality content, but that
internship does indeed set them aside, and
they've had some hands-on experience. I've
encountered their graduates just all over the
place. The State Department seems to like them,
Citicorp, some of the multinational firms.
That's a good program, and I think by all accounts
is clearly one of the top three international
business programs now, which is good. And South
Carolina has some strengths overall.
They've kind of put it together. Not the
university this is, but they have focused on some
areas and done it very well, and that's one of them.
So we stayed there 73 through 80 and thoroughly
enjoyed South Carolina as a state and a place to
live and a university and was growing. In 78, 79, we
took Fulbright. Did you ever run into the
librarian there, Ken Toombs? Yeah, yeah. Ken and I
were real good friends. Is that right? Yeah, he was
from the University of Southwestern Louisiana.
How about that? Yeah, I hadn't thought of that name
in a good while. Excuse me. In 78, 79 we took a leave
and went on a Fulbright to Taiwan. That was a good
year. I'd been promoted, and then the children
were kind of young teenagers and pre-teen. So we
thought if we were going to do it, that would be the
time to do it. As you know, Fulbrights don't pay
particularly well.
But that particular year, for organizational
psychology, I think there were only two. One was
Taiwan, the other was Kiev. So our assessment was,
well, it would probably be easier to get to Russia
over the years than it was going to be to get to the
Orient. So it turned out that may have been
reversed. But we wouldn't change it. We had a great
year, probably the best year we've ever had as a
family. The girls were a little reluctant to go.
And after flying, I don't know, 24 hours or
whatever it took, to get there. We arrived and were
taken to the wrong housing and just deposited by
two young students who didn't have any better
information than we had. So we felt very, very
deposited in a very strange culture. So we flagged
down a taxi and through pointing got to a hotel and
slept for a day or two and found our way to the to the
embassy and everything got straightened out. And
from that point on, it was just a superb
experience, culturally, educationally.
The children, I think, learned to adapt very
quickly. That's a good experience. Oh,
absolutely. And the time they left, they were just
so confident. You could see their growth over that
time. Just very comfortable. I had picked up
enough language to cope. So great year. Anyway, we
came back to South Carolina then for a year. And at
that point, I think I decided to sample some
administrative kind of tracks. And one of the
things available then was the department head in
management at Texas A&M. And I'd known Don
Helrigel for a long time. And it was clear
nationally that this business school was coming
to life in Texas. Exciting, oil was rising. So we
came down, had a great visit, very impressed. Bill
Mews was dean at the time and he had some excitement
and vision. We met a lot of faculty that were
excited about what was happening and could happen
here at A&M. Through the PPG years, spent enough
time down here, and we recruited a lot of people
from A&M. We had some familiarity. I wouldn't say
we really knew the university or its culture, but
enough feel. But very impressed with what the
business school hoped to do. So we decided to come
here and did in the summer of 1980, and have been
here since. No, and your progression quickly
through the College of Business and what has
happened to the College of Business maybe in those
years. Well, as you know, the College of Business
is one of the newer colleges in this university. It
wasn't until, I guess, the mid-60s. when a lot of
the change was occurring at A&M, that the business
school was split off from, originally had been
over in ag, and I guess really started as cotton
accounting, if I may have read that in your book.
Something like that. But then what I guess was a
kind of a combination unit that was an arts and
science unit, and then when John Peterson, John
Pearson was dean, yeah, or the first dean, Things
started to, I think, form. It really exploded. I
guess that's about the only explanation. Yep. And
I think I spent some time several years ago trying
to, and before John died, I spent some time with him
trying to reconstruct the dynamics of that era.
Dick Winerdi and John Calhoun and some others have
shared with me their perceptions. I think a
couple. One, giving it a separate identity. Two, I
think that John Pearson and some of the others that
were kind of guiding it made some very important
early hires and early decisions. You know,
they've got George Rice here. George, with a
doctorate from Stanford, just kind of set a tone.
Absolutely. He said, you know, one A&M serious,
and then they can hire a Stanford PhD. George's
family was from here in the Valley, so I guess there
were other variables. In
my own mind, Don Hellriegel...
probably Bob Strouser in accounting, Don Fraser
and Pete Rose over in finance. Some of those
earlier hires, it hadn't been that long ago, and
these are still relatively young people. But
those were people that were about the business of
making a national reputation for themselves.
knew how to engage in the scholarly activity, were
committed to building an institution, committed
to staying here, and they just planted the seeds.
And I've skipped, I shouldn't even start down
names. Tom Leland was a name during that
transition period apparently very well known and
respected in the accounting profession in Texas,
and helped get the accounting program started,
and that was really the base, I think, upon which
the others, and today, our accounting program is
well regarded. I think the college had some strong
people who had national impact, and who were
committed to building an institution here. Some
very good moves were made, the notion of getting
into business computing science, the
application side, very early. The decision to
This is more recent, to limit enrollment and not
let it get totally out of control. Who was dean when
you came? I was trying to think. When I came, it was
Bill Mews. Yeah, Bill, sure. In fact, yeah, I
followed Bill. Let's see, there have been very few
deans. John Pearson, Clint Phillips, been acting
a couple of times. Acting, that's right, for short
term, yeah. Bill Mews may have been the next. He
probably was, yeah. And then I think I followed
Bill.
When did you become dean? Oh, me, let's see. I'll
get off your feet, but that's all right. Yeah, I'm
not sure. Bill left and went to Ohio? Where'd he go?
He went to the University of Akron. Akron,
University of Akron, yeah, sure. Well, he went
from dean, he went to be deputy chancellor first,
or vice chancellor for a year or two, when Art
Hanson was here. And then went from there to Akron,
and now is president of Auburn.
Good person. I think the business school, good
curriculum, good faculty, I think it has kept its
eye on quality,
has earned the support of the business community.
My guess is it's really sort of the third leg now of
the university in the sense of the old ag
engineering. I think it's really come on. Benton
Coconut, I think it's just been. A superb dean.
Just excellent. And what's happened over there in
the last several years, I think the national
reputation has finally taken hold. Good chairs
and good scholarships. You bet. Those things
really add up. Absolutely. Absolutely. As Dean,
what were any special problems, encounters you
had? Well, I think one, the rapid enrollment
growth was a constant challenge. We were always
chasing space and faculty positions, so getting
enrollment growth under control was important.
Two, the global economy was clearly upon us, so our
need to do more, and I think we did make some
progress in getting more of an international
perspective into the curriculum. emphasizing
getting a study abroad program. Third, resources
clearly weren't keeping up as we moved further
into the 80s, so the need to get organized for
private support, and I think that effort got
underway. And then the constant need to be
recruiting good faculty and retaining them. We
were still growing and still had faculty
positions, so a lot of time and resources were
being spent on recruitment and retention. And I
think we have managed to attract some very good
people. While you were dean, was Frank Vandiver
president? Yes, he was. That's right. When I got
here, In fact, I vividly remember that first fall,
very early, the former students had a welcoming
reception for department heads, and something
was over at the Ramada, and Frank Hubert walked in
and made an announcement. He was the new
something, and I guess that was Jarvis Miller and
Frank, and that would have been, I guess, fall of
1980. as department head, and I had no idea what the
significance of all this was until a number of
months later. But that indeed was what was going
on. Yeah, Frank was the... So you were dean until
when?
Let's see. Until 86, I guess. 86 or 87. Yeah,
because I think I spent two years in the
chancellor's office then. One or two. I think it
was 86. And then went over to the, yeah, I was there
two years. I'd been 86 to 88 in the chancellor's
office. And when Perry Atkinson became
chancellor, By that time, Bill Mews had gone on to
Akron. So Perry was, I think, looking for someone
to kind of oversee the academic side of things and
invited me to join him. And with some trepidation,
I guess. I wasn't sure about that. Probably
rightfully so, in my guess.
But I decided to take a look at that. And again, it
worked out very well. I knew Perry, but not well.
And just found him, to me, the salt of the earth.
Just solid, honest, straightforward,
hardworking guy. And I learned a lot about
politics and about how you don't have to make a lot
of noise to get things done. And Perry, I learned a
heck of a lot from him. And I'm grateful for that
opportunity. But it also broadened my horizons
about a lot of the broader state and educational
issues that were going on. And the South Texas
discussions had started by then. So I was involved
in some of that early discussion.
clearly see more clearly some of the tensions
between the agencies and the university and the
so-called flagship university and the smaller
campuses in the system. And it also, the resource
constraints had begun to get serious in 85
forward.
And I got my first real dose of legislative
interaction while over there. You spent much time
in Austin? Yes. You were associate chancellor? I
was, what do they call it? First year was deputy
chancellor for academic affairs, I think. And
then they changed the title to executive deputy
chancellors. Perry spent an awful lot of time in
Washington, appropriately, on federal issues.
Second, he got an appointment to the National
Science Board. So he had some important reasons to
be gone, and I think what he wanted was just someone
to be clearly delegated to. So I ended up with that
title in 87, 88, I guess. But a good bit of time in
Austin or working legislator, meeting with
legislators. Did you meet with the regents also?
Yeah, yeah.
And that was one of the opportunities to interact
with the regents.
I think Perry took that responsibility seriously
and personally, I think. And I think he said on many
occasions that one group you just got to spend the
time communicating with is Chancellor. And he
said he'd seen enough here and elsewhere who
neglected that link. And so I think he worked hard
on staying in touch and communicating and
visiting and going around visiting with regents
and trying to keep them informed and advised. By
this time, was there a pretty good accord or more or
less tension between the main university, let's
say, and the system? I think that tension's always
there and will always be there. And as I've matured
and talked with other presidents and chancellors
around the country, I think any system where
there's a large flagship or dominant flagship,
that tension is there in some form and at some
level. I think it works relatively better or more
poorly depending on how well the people in, I
think, the two key roles communicate. And they can
make it work or they can make it not work. And I think
it's working here and it will continue to work here
because people want to make it work. It's kind of
interesting in my mind that, you know, Vandiver
was named, what, President of Texas A&M
University and of the system, and then they went
back to the chancellorship. No, I didn't know
that. Yes. I didn't know that. I think given the
size and complexity of the system and just the
insatiable demands on time for the president of
A&M, it would be inhuman and inappropriate. It
was. That happened to a number of our former
presidents and chancellors. I've heard that
said, and I can understand that. It's just too
much. And the roles are different as long as
they're clearly defined. I sense, too, in a way
that the new
recruitment of the new institutions, the
swelling of the system, really now defines it much
more clearly than had been the case in the past. I
think that and the symbolism of moving the system
off this campus. I still remember Tom Harrington
telling me, 70s at least, that the greatest
mistake A&M made was not keeping Arlington and not
moving the systems offices to Dallas. And I
thought, Tom Harrington said that? This Aggie?
Absolutely. And I think that will yet happen, not
necessarily at Dallas. But I think at some point in
the evolution, the system offices should be
probably in Austin, I do think, or in Houston now.
The center of gravity has shifted there. and that
would be good for this campus and I think would make
it easier for those that have to deal with the
chancellor staff that has to be out and around the
whole state or people coming in to visit the system
would make it easier but that's somewhere down the
road but I think physically having them off the
size of the chancellor and I think there was a third
important move and it was creation of the super
dean deputy chancellor I'm not convinced that's
the final form of that. But that was a lot better
than the one where you had the agency head
reporting to the chancellor, the dean reporting
to the provost president, and faculty got in the
middle. That was really bad. And then, you know,
you had this joint appointment, and the agencies
generally won those battles because they had the
resources. The dean's over here trying to run a
promotion tenure process without resources. And
that led to some really, really unfortunate, I
think, or bad things. Putting the dean agency head
in one hat, as we have now in Hyler and Petticoat and
Herzog, brings that matrix together. Now the
communication has to be between those people and
the provost. president, because the provost can
get left out of the loop. Those people with their
dual hack can go right to the chancellor. But
again, I think it's working because we have good
people being engaged, well-regarded, Eilers,
Petticord, and Herb before him. So that'll work.
Ideally, I think the agencies ought to be under the
president. And that may or may not happen. There
are reasons, important reasons, for keeping the
agencies separate. They have separate agency
status in the state budget and the state
mentality, and that's very important for budget
things. They're not in there competing with other
sources. Second, they are allowed to keep their
own indirect costs, unlike the university and
research. Very important, significant. So we
want to keep the identity. But the cleanest way, I
think, would either be to make the president or the
provost, either one, because they really report
to the provost in their dean role, to make the
president or provost a vice chancellor of the
system, for example, where those people would
report to that person in a system role and would
accomplish the same thing. That would integrate
it. That would integrate it. It is also true the
agencies have statewide, and they're trying to
help the other schools. So that's fine. But the
reality is the bulk of the work is done by faculty on
this campus who have two bosses. And that has to
come together. It's working now. I don't think
it's much better than I think it's probably ever
been. I think it is. So there's no need to be
precipitous. But I think some place down the road,
put them under the university and try to protect
their independent status, or take the president
or provost and give them also a system hat that
makes the ag and engineering agencies also report
through that hat. And it wouldn't even take an
office over there, it's just a paper reporting
thing. which would make sure the provost, in
particular, is in the middle of any academic thing
that involves faculty here. But overall, I think
it's very important. And the chancellor's role, I
think, is essential in representing the whole
system to the state and in championing the smaller
schools. and then dealing with the board. As the
growth of the system itself, how does that affect
Texas A&M University, the main campus? Do you see
it as being competitive or complementary? In
theory it should be complementary, and in some
ways we're seeing some of those advantages.
Clearly there are opportunities for joint
programs. Corpus Christi sitting down there on
the ocean ought to be complementary with our
Galveston oceanography programs here and
atmospheric and the Gulf of Mexico kind of
interest. Agriculture at ANI is very strong.
They've got gas engineering down there. There are
a couple interfaces. And that's true. I think if
you looked at a matrix there, there are overlaps
where there ought to be some synergy both ways. The
cost of shared services, computer resources,
library resources, as this electronic era
advances, Those smaller schools are going to
benefit from access here, but we're also going to
benefit. I understand Corpus Christi has a superb
collection of Texas, Texana kinds of things, and
maps of old Texas and Mexico. Well, that will be of
interest to people here. So our ability to share
and access resources is a plus. Third, as the state
becomes more diverse, and as it indeed is, the
reality is there will be no racial ethnic majority
in Texas probably around 2020. That's already the
case in our urban areas. Texas A&M has to become
more diverse. And if we don't, we're not going to
have any political support. because the state
leadership is already happening in the
legislature. The legislature is more diverse,
and they want to see that we're helping educate. So
that's not to say a social statement. That's a
political and economic reality. Well, these
other schools can be feeders for us, that Laredo
and A&I, high percentage Hispanic, Pan American,
Prairie View, high percentage African American,
if we can recruit some of their best and brightest
into our graduate program, that should be a
natural. That hadn't really occurred in
significant ways yet, but it ought to as we get. Do
you see the growth of Texas A&M assuming more and
more the graduate role and being in effect a The
mothership for these? Well, in part, but the other
schools aspired to develop some graduate
programming themselves, and they don't want, I
think, us just to skim their best students. But I
think the reality is this is a national,
international university of some distinction
getting better all the time, and good, strong
academic students are going to want to the best in
terms of peers and faculty and labs. So I think we
will. But I don't think, I don't see our
undergraduate mission diminishing. The goal has
been for a number of years, and it preceded me,
really I guess the Target 2000 thing that George
Mitchell chaired, was to get to 25% graduate And
we're a little over 20%, I think, now. So it's been
slow, but we're probably on track for that. But I
wouldn't see it going much beyond that. I think
we'll still have a very large undergraduate
program and a good mix. But I think this will be a
place where students that have some academic
strengths as well as leadership potential are
probably going to migrate. How did you come to be
president of Texas A&M? Well, there was a search
committee, and I guess they recommended me, and I
think at that time, I think Perry Atkinson, I think
the chancellor was supportive, and that always
helps, and Apparently enough of the regents were
supportive. Were they looking for anything
special? I don't know. My sense was, you know, if
you looked around the country at that time,
several presidents were named that had more of a
business orientation or came out of business
schools. And I think that probably was not By
chance. I don't know if there was any conscious
notion. But I think clearly the resource
constraints were getting much more serious and
tighter. And it was clear to all that we were going
to have to do more in the efficiency kinds of
things. Second, I think it was evident that public
institutions like private were going to have to
and have to take on more private fundraising. I
happen to enjoy that part of the role. Some don't.
So I think that, to the extent one enjoys the
fundraising and the external role. Third, the
legislative interface is clearly going to become
more important and always important, but I think
it is resources. we're getting tighter that be
someone that liked you know wander around the
halls or go visit legislators and then kind of dig
into that that battle and then I think probably
just someone who who appreciated the uniqueness
of A&M and wanted to nurture its best but not you
know not obviously not be resistant to change
because change is gonna be inevitable but but but
that appreciate that this is a special place, a
unique place, and there are a lot of the
dimensions, that uniqueness, that deserve
preserving. So I guess those would be some of the
variables, I would think, that might have played
into the decision process. What was your biggest
challenge as you walked into the president's
office? I think probably the resource issue. We
were coming off such a high in Texas in the early
80s, and oil prices soaring and expectations so
high. And this university has come so far and so
quickly in terms of size and quality and impact.
And I think just our expectations were so high and
justifiable to kind of bring that to some kind of
focus and more realistic level, that state
support was not going to be what it had been, that
the permanent fund was not going to be the source,
and yet not destroy enthusiasm or momentum or
optimism. So I think it was pretty clear by 88 that
the resource issues were significant.
The athletic situation was tenuous the day I took
over. The day after I assumed office, I went to a
meeting with the NCAA. That's been prevalent
throughout Aggie history. Indeed. But I am so
confident we have made such progress in that area.
And we, as you know, have another situation going
on right now. But I am firmly convinced that it is an
isolated incident and not systemic. And then I'm
extremely disappointed and frustrated and angry
and all those things that we have another one. But I
think the reality is that we really I know we have
turned the corner that we are not far from being a
model program. And that's going to show in the next
couple of years. I'm just highly confident. But
that makes it all the more frustrating that we have
another incident now because it just distracts
from time, from image, from what we're really
about. And I think our coaches have demonstrated
they can be highly competitive and can do an
effective job without breaking any rules. So we
don't need anybody out there, whether they're
students or former students or anybody else,
helping in ways that aren't needed. I understand,
but I committed in 1988 to get my arms around it, and
I thought we were almost there, but we're not there
yet.
Third,
as kind of a personal issue, I wanted to also work
with the faculty and others to further the
international agenda of the university. By
tradition, A&M was and is an international
university, I think, through our land grant
status. through just faculty interest in a lot of
areas. So already, we were the head of many
universities. But today, you can't go to a
meeting. As you know, in higher education, people
are talking about, how are we going to
internationalize the curriculum? How are we
going to get more students attuned to this global
competition? Well, A&M is far down the road, far
down the road. If we don't shoot ourselves in the
foot, I think that all is going to take hold over the
rest of this decade. We need to get a lot more of our
students access to a study abroad, I believe. I
think that's one of the most meaningful things.
And I'm hopeful during this capital campaign,
we'll get some significant infusion of endowment
dollars to support students to take at least a
summer where they can get an international
experience. So you see this as one of the major
future thrusts or directions that Texas A&M is
going to take? Yes, because I think education,
like business, by definition, is going to be
global. I think where the knowledge is being
generated or the nature of the significant issues
being dealt with, all just transcends national
boundaries. information network is right at the
threshold. And we're all bitnetting now with
colleagues around the world on our computers. And
we'll be moving manuscripts and massive amounts
of data around the world just so easily. And
interactive TV is just around the corner that
we'll be interacting live with colleagues in
Japan or South America. So I think the whole nature
of the way we communicate, the way we learn, the way
we disperse knowledge is going to change. And it's
going to be global. And indeed, our graduates are
all going to be dealing, even though they may never
work out of the country, they're going to be
dealing with global economy, global
transactions, global issues. And we need to
further that. And I think we are. And one of the
greatest disabilities liabilities in making
that happen? Well, I think a couple. Just general
resistance to change.
Using
old paradigms or old models or old stereotypes.
When we started our campus in Japan, a lot of flack,
reliving World War II. And that's understandable
for families that had
family members who fought in the Pacific or Japan.
That's 50 years ago. That's a new world. And Japan
is either going to be one of our major allies and
trading partners, or it's going to be the dominant
economic force in the world. Either way, we need
to... I spent a few weeks over there. It was an
incredible place. I was in the Navy, I guess, in the
50s or something, and some Japanese officers came
into our VOQ mess and sat down across the table, and
one naval officer crawled across the table trying
to get to that guy. So I know what you mean when you
talk about the old models. Well, I think that's
what, too, is resources. I think individually for
a student or family to say, I want to spend a summer
or a semester abroad, there's a marginal cost to
that, or it may preclude them from working. So
making it feasible, and then certainly
programmatically for a faculty or department to
have a major role abroad, it's been pretty good. So
getting the resource base in place to help that
occur. There are some bureaucratic things as
well. The state of Texas a couple of years ago had
policies in place which discouraged faculty to
be, I mean, to get your foreign travel approved and
go away to the governor. Gee, Christmas for a state
that, I mean, we are an international state
already. What are we, the 11th largest economy in
the world if we were a republic? In and of itself,
yeah. Major ports and major international
companies and just So we are a global state, but we
don't always recognize it. But it's coming, and I
think we've got a role to educate the state and our
legislature and others about what we are and what
we can be as a state. What do you think A&M's great
strengths are in this development? In the
international? Yeah. Well, one, our graduates.
Or that will not only carry us into the
international, but just into the future. Into the
future? Yeah. Well, that's the same answer. That
would be, I think, our graduates. I think we are
producing a good graduate that the external
markets recognize. And those external markets
are employers, they're graduate schools,
they're professional schools. And I think our
students are great.